## CS 305 Module Eight Journal
### Artemis Financial Practices for Secure Software Report
1. Artemis Financial is a financial firm which runs a web service that handles the sensitive financial information of its users which includes clients as high profile as international business and government agencies. Artemis Financial requested that their web application be updated to comply with their software security standards and ensure high-quality, secure code.
2. I had great success in identifying and eliminating dependency vulnerabilities. The OWASP Dependency Check was highly valuable, especially because Artemis Financial was using dependencies that were many years out of date and therefore had many vulnerabilities. I did well adhering to secure coding standards when creating new code and refactoring old code. Secure coding practices and keeping dependencies up-to-date are important because they help to keep information secure. It is vital to keep information secure in order for organizations to retain trust, avoid lawsuits and government penalties, and operate effectively
3. The static testing phase was a little tricky at times because the dependencies were so old that there were some 130+ vulnerabilities to sift through. However, upon further investigation, it appeared that nearly all dependency vulnerabilities could be solved through updating. This serves as a reminder that one of the most important pieces of secure programming is ensuring that the dependencies that a system is based on stay up-to-date and secure.
4. A primary area of concern was rectifying the out of date dependencies. However, ensuring proper error handling and safe programming practices throughout the program as well as ensuring that any input was validated was a central concern. In the future, more dynamic testing would be beneficial as not all vulnerabilities can be easily found through static analysis and testing.
5. After refactoring Artemis Financial's code, manual testing to ensure correct functionality was conducted and a secondary dependency check was done to ensure that no more vulnerable dependencies existed. The code was then statically analyzed to ensure no visible programming mistakes were made that could reduce security.
6. The Maven Repository was of great help since it provides version numbers for the latest version of all the dependencies that were used. It also provided a secondary source for determining dependency vulnerability. The Maven Repository is useful whenever Maven is being used. The Java Spring documentation was also very useful since it helped to build an understanding of what certain features of Java Spring do and how to use them. This documentation is useful any time Java Spring is being used. General safe programming standards were used and should always be strived for in the future. Programming in safe, thoughtful, and reliable ways that avoid unhandled runtime errors, null, and other common ways to cause unintended behavior are paramount to all software development endeavors.
7. I would show a future employer my commitment to secure coding standards and the understanding of how vulnerabilities can affect an organization as demonstrated in this assignment.
